Git : Git is a distributed version control system that tracks changes in source code during software development. It allows multiple developers to collaborate.

Q) What is the difference between Git and GitHub?
    Git is a tool for version control. GitHub is a cloud-based hosting platform for Git repositories, enabling collaboration and code sharing.

Q) How do you initialize a Git repository?
    git init

Q) What is the difference between git pull and git fetch?
    git fetch downloads changes but doesn’t apply them.

    git pull fetches and merges the changes into the current branch.

Q) How do you check the status of your repository?
    git status

Q) What is a Git branch?
    A branch in Git is like a separate workspace where you can make changes, add features, fix bugs, or experiment, without changing the main code (usually called the main or master branch).

Q) How do you create and switch to a new branch?
    git checkout -b new-branch

Q) What is .gitignore?
    .gitignore is a special file in Git that tells Git which files or directories to ignore (i.e., not track or include in commits).

Q) What is git cherry-pick?
    git cherry-pick allow you to apply a specific commit from one branch onto another branch.
    (it's like picking single commit from one branch and putting it onto another branch. You don't need to merge the whole branch. - Just one or more specific commits only.)


Q) What are HEAD, working directory, and index?

    HEAD: Current snapshot of the last commit.
    Working Directory: Current files being edited.
    Index (Staging Area): Files ready to be committed.

Q) Difference between git reset, git revert, and git checkout?

    git reset: Moves HEAD to a previous state (can change history).
    git revert: Creates a new commit to undo a previous one. ( preserve history)
    git checkout: Switches branches or restores files.

Q) How do you undo the last commit?
    Keep changes:
        git reset --soft HEAD~1
    Discard changes:
        git reset --hard HEAD~1

Q) diff git fetch vs git clone
   git clone:
       Purpose: Creates a local copy of a remote repository.
       Use case: When you're starting with a project for the first time.
       What it does:
            Copies the entire repo (history, branches, tags, etc.).
            Automatically sets up the remote (origin).
            Creates a working directory
   git fetch:
       Purpose: Updates your local copy with new changes from the remote repo.
       Use case: When you already have a cloned repo and want the latest commits, branches, or tags.
       What it does:
            Downloads changes from remote.
            Does not merge or modify your working branch.
            Keeps local and remote branches separate until you merge or rebase.

Q) Git Best Practices
    Write Clear Commit Messages
    Commit Small, Logical Changes
    Use Branching Strategy
    Use .gitignore Wisely
    Pull Before You Push
    Use Pull Requests (PRs) : Submit all changes via PRs to get peer review. Always explain what, why, and how in PR descriptions.

    Avoid Committing Secrets
    Rebase Before Merging 
    Avoid Force Pushes on Shared Branches
    Tag Releases
    Automate Git Hooks : Use pre-commit for linting, formatting, and preventing bad commits.
    CI/CD Pipelines  : Ensure code is tested before merging using pipelines like GitHub Actions, Jenkins, or GitLab CI.

pending
=======
Q) How does Git handle conflicts during a rebase?
Q) What is a merge conflict and how do you resolve it?
Q) Difference between git merge and git rebase.
Q) What is git fork?
Q) What is the git reflog and how is it useful?
Q) What is the difference between origin and upstream?
Q) Git Hooks.
    Git hooks are scripts that run automatically at certain points in the Git lifecycle (e.g., before a commit or push).



